"Ta tiktodu gi" in the debate, "Ta tiktodu" and this is always difficult for me to ask like this,
"Ta tiktodu gi" means one decisive, decisive, decisive and confident, decisive confidence, I think,
or decisive trust, or it is everything, it is everything, it embodies everything,
that means raka, dharmakaya, it embodies everything, this is also in the natural level of the raka,
dharmakaya is never deluded by the object, that means object means object of five senses,
is never deluded, cannot deluded, well not deluded by the objects, and it also cannot be deluded,
spoiled by the subjects,
it cannot be spoiled by the subjects, what means subject? Subject means mind, subject means act
consciousness,
what are those act consciousness? Consciousness, the eye consciousness, ear consciousness,
mouse consciousness, tongue consciousness, body consciousness, and ear consciousness, and mind
consciousness,
emotional consciousness, and allied consciousness, cannot be deluded, so that means it cannot be
deluded by,
or changed by object, by subject, by any means, it is always fresh, clear, unebated, natural act is
is, that is the rupa,
therefore we should have confidence on this, confidence in this, and also same time we should have
the confidence
in joy, in the advocate of the richness and greatness of this rupa, discoverer rupa, we don't have
to be,
what in the teachings said, we don't have to be mouth watering to the others, other instructions,
teachings,
this and that, rupa is recognized, rupa is everything, embodies everything, it embodies all the
every teachings is completed within this discoverer rupa, there is nothing else teaching is, there
is, beside the rupa,
rupa is here, bodhicata is here, all path is here, all boom is here, within the rupa, everything is
within, everything,
so all teachings are there, and all the mademaka teachings are there, in the rupa, and all the mad
hyaparamata teachings is here,
mamadhara teachings is here, and everything is here, nothing is out of this, rupa is the ultimate
state,
rupa is the ordinary, or zocchi is the ordinary natural state, one with discoverer, we should have
in joy,
deal with devotion and preserve and activate discoverers, bring out full bloom of the realization,
how for example mademaka is here, mademaka teachings, what is mademaka?
It shows you mademaka, in the Tibetan it is woman, what means middle, what means middle?
Free from all extremes, existing, non-existing, either and neither, that is in the rupa,
rupa is beyond existing, non-existing, either and neither, ask yourself, is there or not?
So, whole mademaka teachings are here, whole mademaka is within the rupa,
and then whole pandyaparamata teachings, that is the word, again, what means pandyaparamata?
Pandyaparamata is translated as the Indian, transcendent wisdom, transcendent wisdom that goes
beyond, transcendent.
And in Tibetan, hiratya parathasamma, hiratya parathasamma, hiram is supreme knowledge, supreme
wisdom.
So what is, when you just go out, the rupa, there is nothing more supreme wisdom than the rupa, rup
a.
What means parathasamma, going beyond, transcendent beyond?
Beyond means going to reach the Buddhahood, enlightenment.
By practicing rupa, or by practicing zukhi, it will bring, Buddha is right here, the nirvana is
right here,
enlightenment is right here.
So, there it is, the ultimate state of the pandyaparamata.
And then, what is, Mahamudra, many a times in the teaching said, many a times in the teaching said,
ground is mademaka, path is mahamudra, result is zukhi.
Teaching only said, so ground of the mademaka, I explain it.
When you discover the rupa, that is the mademaka.
Path is the mahamudra.
What means mahamudra?
Mahamudra in the teaching said, is like a great cell, cell that, celled every day, nothing is out
of that cell, cell, cell.
Rupa is, nothing is out of that cell, that is, rupa.
Three gaias in the rupa, and three vajas in the rupa, samsara, nirvana, the display of the rupa,
what is outside that?
Rupa is a pervasive cell, what is the nature of the mind?
So, therefore, whole mahamudra is complete within the, within the rupa state.
Rupa state.
Then zukhi teaching, zukhi itself, result is zukhi.
And zukhi means everything is complete.
Zukhi, great completions, everything is complete within zukhi.
Nothing is outside of the zukhi, or nothing is outside of the nature of the mind.
So, all this is in zukhi state.
And then vows and samayas are also in zukhi state.
Everything, vows and samayas, and empowerment and all that, everything is this, this.
The old man's empowerment is what?
And zukhi teaching said the fourth empowerment, fourth empowerment, or rupa-saraing, the powerful
empowerment of rupa, rupa.
Discovering that rupa, nature, nature is empowerment.
When we receive the zukhi of empowerment, man, and the fourth empowerment always introduces the
nature of the mind, or rupa.
This is the what it is.
So, empowerment is also complete.
Samayas are complete, vows are completed, everything is completed within these rupa states.
So, therefore, what the great master said in the teaching,
he said we don't have to mouth water something to the others, then the zukhi, and enjoy this.
Generous, enjoy stabilizing that.
If we're lingering all the time, we've been gypsy.
In some generally in the Buddha's teaching, sentient beings are gypsies.
From the beginning, we are gypsy, all the time.
We are wandering all the time.
But then also we have been spiritually gypsy.
Then we are gypsy from every ways.
We won't get, we won't be settled.
Settled.
So, therefore, recognize the beauty and the richness and the importance and the glories of this
nature,
and then we begin to practice.
We begin to activate these qualities.
So, that is what the second rule of the teaching, the garabdul-ya teaching, which is very important
.
Here, great master made...